# RSA Chat
***
An implementation of a primitive secure communications system utilizing the RSA cryptosystem and two primitive symmetric ciphers – a substitution cipher and an additive cipher. I completed this project for a University assignment.  

**Do not use any of the source code to submit as your own work or idea.** 

*Program Written in November 2020*  
*Pushed to Github in December 2020*

***

## Source Files and Their Roles

`RSAChatServer.java` allows multiple clients to connect to it and  send messages amongst each other. The messages are encrypted prior to being sent to the chat group. As the server, it receieves every message sent by a client and then forwards that message to all other clients.

`RSAChatClient.java` operates as the client. It opens a connection to the server via a Socket at the server's IP Address and port. The port number is set at 4444. The client will prompt for the server name. Use `localhost` as the server's name if it is being run on a local machine. The client receives both the server's public key, `E` and the server's public mod value, `N` as BigInteger objects. The server also sends the preferred symmetric cipher as a String object and the client creates a corresponding object of either
`Substitution` or `Additive`. It converts the key from the chosen symmetric cipher to a BigInteger object. After RSA-encytping the BigInteger version using the public key and public mod key, the encrypted BigInteger key is sent to the server. The user's username is also encrypted and sent to the server when entered. The `encode()` method does the encryption and returns the corresponding array of bytes to the server. The `decode()` method decrypts the message that is sent before posting it on the chat window.  

`SymmetricCipher.java` is an interface for the two symmetric cipher types. It containing methods to `getKey()`, `encode()`, and `decode()`. 

`Additive.java` is one of the types of symmetric ciphers that can be used. The class has two constructors. The first constructor creates a randomized 128-byte additive key that will be stored in an array of bytes. The second constructor uses this array of bytes as a key. `RSAChatServer.java` will call the parameterized constructor while `RSAChatClient.java` calls the constructor with no parameter. The decryption occurs by subtracting the corresponding byte of the key from each index of the array of bytes. If the sent message is shorter than the key, then the remaining bytes are ignored. If the sent message is longer than the key, then the key is cycled through as needed. The byte array is converted in decryption and returned as a String. 

`Substitution.java` is the second type of symmetric cipher that can be used. The class has two constructors. The first constructor creates a randomized 256-byte array. This is a permutation of the 256 possible byte values and serves as a map from bytes to the actual substitution values. This is the reason that an inverse mapping array that is derived from the substitution array is used. The second constructor takes in the parameter of the byte array and uses it as a key. `RSAChatServer.java` will call the parameterized constructor while `RSAChatClient.java` calls the constructor with no parameter. Decryption is achieved by reversing the substitution and converting the bytes to a String to be returned.

***

## Compiling, Executing, and Understanding the Output

### Server Compilation and Execution  
**COMPILATION:**
> javac RSAChatServer.java

**EXECUTION:**
> java RSAChatServer


### Client Compilation and Execution  
**COMPILATION:**
> javac RSAChatClient.java

**EXECUTION:**
> java RSAChatClient

Compile and run the server in one terminal first. Open a second and third terminal and compile and run the client in each. Use `localhost` as the 'Server Name' for both clients. The `E` and `N` keys and the type of cipher will be outputted to the console. The symmetric key generated by each client will also be outputted. For each message that is encrypted, the original message as a String, the corresponding array of bytes and the encrypted array of bytes will all be outputted. For each message that is decrypted, the array of bytes recieved, the decrypted array of bytes and the corresponding message as a String will all be outputted. 

